[Music]
good evening I'm
Judy Woodruff on the
NewsHour tonight no collusion no
obstruction
he's a leaker President
Trump fires back
claiming vindication
one day after
former FBI director
Carney told Congress
Scouten lied and
tried to stop the
investigation into
his former national
security adviser
also ahead a reversal
of fortune British
prime minister
Theresa May loses
control of Parliament
what it means for
brexit and Britain
shifting politics
then searching for
peace on stage how
one play is imagining
what really happened
behind the scenes
in the historic Oslo
accord negotiations
it's odd to me that
the current events
are larger little things are not
approached more in
the American theater
only because it's
such great red meat
for us and it's Friday
mark shields and
David Brooks are
here to analyze the
fallout from the
Comey hearing and the
rest of the week's
news all that and
more on tonight's PBS news hour
[Music]
the high-stakes struggle between
President Trump and
fired FBI director
James Comey is our
top story again
tonight the president
has answered
commis Senate
testimony without write
denials new talk of
possible tapes and
two pledged to tell
his story under oath
william brangham
has the story no
collusion no obstruction
he's a leaker the
president publicly
broke his silence
about James Comey
'he's testimony today
in a rose garden
news conference with
klaus low Honus the
president of Romania
we were very very
happy and frankly
James Comey confirmed
a lot of what I
said and some of the
things that he said
just weren't true
the whole truth
and nothing but the
truth so help you
God the fired FBI
director yesterday
testified several
things that he took
detailed notes of
his conversations
with the President to
protect against mr.
Trump lying about
what was said he said
he leaked some of
those notes last
month hoping to prompt
the naming of a special
counsel I needed
to get that out into
the public square
he did tell President
Trump several
times that he was not
specifically under
investigation and
Comey testified the
president pressured
him to end the probe
of former national
security adviser
Michael Flynn he did
say under oath that
you told him to let
the Flynn you said
you hoped the Flynn
investigation you
could like I didn't
say that so he lied
about that well I
didn't say that I mean
I will tell you I
didn't say that the
president also denied
asking Comey for a
pledge of loyalty
and he was asked
directly if he has
recordings of their
conversations as he's
hinted before I'm
not hinting anything
I'll tell you about
it over a very short
period of time when
will you tell us
about the role for a
fairly short period of time
are there tapes oh
you're gonna be very
disappointed when
you hear the end so
don't worry conservative
news outlets
and a number of
Republicans back to mr.
Trump over Comey
house freedom caucus
chairman mark meadows
I think that it
was actually a day
that the vindicated
the president when
you have director
Comey three times
saying that he was not
under investigation
Republican senator
Susan Collins who's
the Intelligence
Committee said Comey
was wrong to leak
his notes but she
defended him as well
I found him to be
credible candid and
thorough doesn't
mean better free
memory has it's exactly
right or that there
aren't different
interpretations but
he testified under
oath this led to
another question for
the president so he
said those things
under oath would you
be willing to speak
under oath to give
your version of 100
percent
so if Robert Muller
wanted to speak with
you about that you
would be glad to tell
him exactly what I
just told you on the
other side of the
aisle Democrats
pounced on commis
claims about the
president House
Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi and there's
no question he abused
power whether he
obstructed justice
remains for the
facts to come forward
and that's what we
want are the facts
meanwhile leaders of the House
Intelligence Committee
asked Comey for
his notes and memos
they also asked the
White House for any
memos or recordings
of the meetings if
they exist for the
PBS Newshour i'm
william brangham in the
day's other major
story one headline in
London said it all
mayhem the morning
after a ballot box
drubbing for British
prime minister
Theresa May and her
Conservative Party
special correspondent
malcolm brabant reports
it was a painful
reckoning for a prime
minister whose election
Gamble failed in
a stunning fashion
but after meeting the
Queen Theresa May
insisted she'll carry
on I will now form
a government a
government that can
provide certainty
and lead Britain forward at this
critical time for
our country May had
hoped the snap
election with boost
conservative dominance
in Parliament and
give her a stronger
hand in negotiating
Britain's exit from
the European Union
instead the Tories
lost 13 seats in the
House of Commons the
opposition Labour
Party led by Jeremy
Corbyn gained 32
seats I had wanted
to achieve a larger
majority but that
was not the result
that we secured and
as I reflect on the
results I will reflect
on what we need
to do in the future
to take the party
forward but Westminster
demonstrated
wearing a may mask
laid flowers on a
mock grave amid rising
tolls the prime
minister to resign
Labour leader Corbin
led the charge it
was her campaign it
was her decision to
call the election
it was her name out
there and she was
saying she was doing
it to bring about
strong and stable
government well this
morning it doesn't
look like a strong
government it doesn't
look like a stable
look like a government
that has any
program whatsoever
Corbin success came
in part from
cooperating with the
grassroots campaign organisation
momentum which took
advice from Bernie
Sanders volunteers
Adam Klug is a
national organizer you build up
relationships and
people on the doorstep
you listen to them
you communicate your
ideas effectively
and help train people
on persuading people
of ye Labour's
policies made sense
but Mays opponents
aren't the only
ones questioning her
role and a Subaru
is a Conservative
member of parliament
this is a very bad
moment for the
Conservative Party and we
need to take stock
and our leader needs
to take stock as well
will conservatives
go as far as removing
May from power
anand manam a
professor at King's
College London
says it depends on
several key factors firstly the
availability of
someone else who could
command support in
the party secondly
the scale of
Opposition in the part
to her and thirdly
whether or not the
members of the
parliamentary party think
it's better to try
and get rid of her
now or have a
period of calm where
things can bed
themselves in after the
election before
maybe trying to do a
leadership election
next year May has
been criticized for
running a lackluster
campaign it was marked
by a proposal to
force elderly people
to pay more for
their care and her
decision to skip a
televised debate
then came the terror attacks in
Manchester and London
which refocused
the race on security
and Mays role in
cutting police ranks
and there's brexit
uk's withdrawal talks
of the EU but you
to begin in just
10 days this was
certainly a rejection
of Teresa Mays
very tough brexit
strategy where she was
going to cleave a
lot of the links
between the UK and the EU John
Springfield is
director of research at
the Centre for
European reform there's
only about 18 months
left to negotiate
the brexit deal
and if say we have
another three or
four months while the
government is formed
that we have fresh
elections then
there's much less time
and so the EU then
has an awful lot of
power towards the end
of the negotiating
process for now May
needs a coalition
partner to form a
governing majority in
parliament most likely Northern
Ireland's Democratic
Unionist Party the
group is Pro brexit
but well to the
right on social
issues there's broad
agreement across the
political spectrum
that Theresa May is
living on borrowed
time the Labour Party
believes that her
coalition of convenience
with Northern
Ireland's DUP is
unsustainable and that
there will be a new
general election in
the not-too-distant
future mrs. May
wants to remain in
office for the next
five years but most
analysts agree that
the conservative
establishment will
terminate her
Premiership when the time
is right and they'll
select another
candidate to lead
them into the next
general election
Judi Malcolm Brabant
in London and in
the day's other
news president Trump
dove back into the
diplomatic route over
Qatar where 10,000
u.s. troops are
stationed Saudi
Arabia Egypt and other
Arab states have cut
ties with a Persian
Gulf kingdom and his
rose-garden news
conference today mr.
Trump praised the
Saudis and said Qatar
must do more to
fight extremism the
nation of Qatar
unfortunately has
historically been a
funder of terrorism
at a very high level
the time had come
to call on Qatar to
end its funding they
have to end that
funding and it's
extremist ideology
in terms of funding
just an hour earlier
Secretary of State
Rex Tillerson had
taken a very different
tack he urged the
Saudis and others to
ease what he called
a blockade of Qatar
he said it is
hindering US military
efforts including
against the Islamic
state group the
president also did today
what he had not done
at NATO meetings
last month he said he absolutely
supports the Alliance's
article 5 that
provision requires
NATO members to
defend one another
in the event of an
attack mr. Trump also
called again from
member states to
spend more on defense
Iran Ian's paid
tribute today to the 17
people killed in
Islamic state attacks
on Tehran and their
leaders blamed the
US and Saudi Arabia
at a mass funeral
ceremony Speaker
of Parliament split
into US lawmakers
for moving ahead with
new sanctions
against their country
hours after Wednesday's
deadly attacks
not a Simoni comedian
as the Iranian
nation was engaged
in conflict with
terrorists at the Parliament the
American Senate with ultimate
shamelessness passed
a law against the
Iranian nation and in support of
terrorists doing
this proved that
America is the great
international Isis
meanwhile Iran's
Intelligence Ministry
announced that 41
people have been
arrested for
suspected links to the
attacks in Iraq Isis
took credit for a
suicide attack
today that killed at
least 21 people and
wounded dozens more
officials say the
Sunni militant staged
the bombing at a
crowded market in a
mainly Shiite city
south of Baghdad US
Army
that Chelsea Manning
says that she
wanted to show the
human toll of the war
in Iraq and that
is why she leaked
thousands of
classified documents
Manning spoke in
her first interview
since being released
from military
prison last month she
told ABC News that
she felt obligated
to expose civilian
casualties while serving as an
intelligence analyst
in Iraq getting all
this information
and it's just death
destruction mayhem
and eventually you
just stop I stopped seeing just
statistics and
information and I started
seeing people I've accepted
responsibility no one
told me to do this
nobody directed me
to do this this is me
it's on me
the transgender
soldier formerly known
as Bradley Manning
is now appealing her
conviction meanwhile
a federal contract
employee charged with
leaking classified
information will stay
in jail until her
trial reality winner
was denied bond
yesterday in Georgia
prosecutors warned
that she might have
taken other classified
documents newly
elected congressman
Greg Jian Forte will
plead guilty to
assaulting a reporter
Montana prosecutor says that the
Republican will
make the plea deal
Monday to a misdemeanor
charge gn4 tay
allegedly knocked
down a reporter for
the Guardian newspaper
the day before
last month's special
election on wall
street blue chips
rose but tech stocks
sold off the Dow
Jones Industrial
Average gained 89
points to close at
21,000 to 72 a new
record the Nasdaq
fell nearly a
hundred and fourteen
points and the S&P
500 slipped two and
the stage is now set
for Japan's Emperor
Akihito to step down
Parliament today
adopted a law
authorizing the first
abdication in two hundred years
Akihito is indicated
that he wishes to
retire citing his
aged 83 and declining
health the law clears
the way for Crown
Prince Naruhito to
ascend to the throne
still to come on
the NewsHour what
voters across the
nation think of the
latest twist in a
James Comey versus
president Trump saga
mark shields and
David Brooks analyze the
VI directors testimony and the
president's response
Oslo one of this
year's Tony Award
nominees for best play
and much more
[Music]
millions of Americans
tuned in to watch
former FBI director James Comey
testified before
Congress yesterday but
as hari Sreenivasan
explores what they
saw differed widely
often depending on
where they live we
look at the reaction
across the country
to the Comey hearing
the Russia investigations
and president
Trump's first few
months in office with
John Ralston editor
of the Nevada
independent who
joins us today from
California ashton
mara of West Virginia
Public Broadcasting
and Brandon Smith
with Indiana Public
Broadcasting Ashley
let me start with you
millions of people
watch this in DC
quite a few watched
President Trump on
the Rose Garden today
deny what former
director Comey said how
does this compare
to the reaction in
your community
where people paying
attention to this
I think in West
Virginia generally
there's the same kind
of there's the same
level of attention
as there is kind of
generally across the
country but I will
say re that a lot of
what's happening in
Washington is being
overshadowed by what's
happening here at
the local level in
West Virginia we're
about 19 days away
from a government
shutdown and if
lawmakers don't approve
a budget by June 30th
that means all state
workers get laid
off there's no more
funding for any
government services
and so what's
happening at the
local level for West
Virginians is a much
bigger issue than
what's going on
in Washington John
Ralston all politics
locals at the case
in Nevada as well
well I think it is to
some extent our
legislature just ended
but the shadow of Trump is over
everything as you
know they did a lot of
things in reaction to Trump the
legislative leaders
it's controlled by
Democrats here we
have a Republican
governor who is not
that Trump friendly
they passed some
bills to try to codify
the the Obamacare
here they sent out a
lot of press releases
about Trump Nevada
is an unusual state
to put it mildly as
all of you know but
we're also one of
the few states to go completely
Democratic in 2016
went for Clinton the
legislature turned
we had two Republican
congressional seats flip to the
Democrats so there
is not it's not
exactly Trump friendly
territory in the
first place but I think that all
politics is local
here in the sense that
people who react
what just happened
in the legislature
what kind of education
policies were
passed and of course
the big issue here
which nobody is
talking about elsewhere
is we have a new legalization of
marijuana and a pot tax which
overshadows a lot
of things I will get
to those issues and
second Brandon Smith
people outside the
rapporteur class the
bubble that you're
in in the Statehouse
were they watching
where they tuned in
not nearly in the
kind of the fervor you
saw in the nation's
capitol here it was
yeah I think is
Ashton mentioned it's
just sort of viewing
this the same way
they viewed everything
coming out of
Washington DC these
last few months
certainly walking
around the Statehouse
yesterday which is
where I work you
heard the audio of
the Comey hearing
coming out of a lot
of offices and it
was on at the lobbyist
bar across the
street but beyond
that no people weren't
paying nearly as close attention
Brandon staying with
you for a second
what are people
in Indiana paying
attention to that's
a couple big things
one the economy this is a heavy
manufacturing state
which is partly why
Donald Trump's
message of bringing
American jobs back
referencing carrier
which had said that
it was pulling out
of Indiana and all
of that people care
about that here
they pay a lot of
attention to that here
that in health care
this is a state that
went through its own
version of Medicaid
expansion with Mike
Pence's hip 2.0
which is what he
called Indiana's
program and that
has enrolled 400,000
Hoosiers in the
program and and if that
gets taken away
that's a lot of people
losing out on affordable
health care and
that's something
people here really care
about Ashton Morra
Medicaid expansion
also something in
West Virginia but
there's also a lot
of talk about coal
jobs the president
uses that opportunity
whenever he gets
right the president
came and visited
the state before the
Republican primary
last year and he came
to talk about coal
and to show his
support for the coal
industry and since
he's taken office
has continued talking
about putting coal
miners back to work
in West Virginia I
will say that the
state you know we're
on the edge of this
fiscal cliff essentially
but in the past
couple of months we've
seen a rebound in
the coal industry
and a really small
increase in the
amount of money we're
bringing in from the
coal severance tax
so at the local level
what West Virginia
voters see is
we voted for someone
who said he was
going to put miners
back to work and
then justice recently
as yesterday one
coal mine in southern
West Virginia
announced hey we're
going to open our
doors again and put
some 300 coal miners
back to work
John Ralston besides
the pot tax what
else are people in Nevada paying
attention to well
you know he mentioned
the Medicaid expansion
this is a state
that did expand
Medicaid we had a
Republican governor
one of the few to
expand Medicaid
there is now a bill
sitting on his desk
that has gotten a
lot of national
attention already that
would be Medicaid for
all in other words
universal health
care in the state of
Nevada there's a lot
of emotion behind
that it's no telling
yet what are the
governor's going to
sign it I think it's
50/50 at best maybe
leaning slightly
against it health
care is a big issue in
Nevada we've had a
lot of uninsured the
Medicaid expansion
helped hundreds of
thousands of Nevadans
and now you have
our US senator Dean
Heller the only
Republican incumbent
running in a state
that was won by
Clinton going all over
the map on Medicaid
expansion first
saying that he wants
to phase it out
then coming back
today and correcting
that and saying well
he's not so sure
and so that issue of
Medicaid expansion
and whether we will
be the only state in
the country to have
Medicaid for all if
the governor signs
that bill is a huge
issue here you know
I ask all of you a
question about the
level of support that
exists for the
president among those
voters that stuck
with him in the polls
recent polling from
the Washington Post
and ABC on Wednesday
reveals of the
majority 56 percent
of Americans say
Trump is interfering
with the Russia
investigations rather
than cooperating
his approval ratings
are relatively low
right now Brandon
let me start with you
well Indiana is as
much Trump country as
you're going to find
it's a he won the
state here by 19
points in 2016 and I'm
sure that number
isn't as strong as it
was in November but
it's still pretty
strong here I think
that the overriding
sense among Hoosiers
is a lot of this
stuff is distractions
or it's not Donald
Trump's fault but
it's distracting from
the real work and
so they're still
counting on him to
fulfill his promises
Asha Mara yeah I
think the same is true
here in West Virginia
President Trump
won the state at
the largest majora
ready that's ever
happened over a
Democratic candidate
and so I think for
the most part Trump
supporters in West
Virginia are still
Trump supporters and
they feel that way
because of the things
that are happening
that we've already
talked about things
at the local level
like this small bump in the coal
industry John Ralston
Nevada being a
purple to blue state
Nevada as you know
Trump lost here by
a couple of points
you have essentially
three states here
you have the two urban
areas of Reno and
Las Vegas then you
have rural Nevada
where Trump won in
a landslide they're
the kind of people
where if Donald Trump
shot somebody on
Las Vegas Boulevard
south to strip they
would still support
him the urban area of Las Vegas
three-quarters of
the votes sometimes
very very democratic
not Trump country
in them we have
the swing county of
Washoe County which
is Reno and sparks
which is closely
more closely divided
but I still think
that there that that
leans a little bit
Democratic now when
it comes to presidential
races so it's
three states I
don't think anyone's
views are changing
because of what's
happened so far
all right well all
three of your states
have Senate contests
and the midterms
coming up so I'm
sure we'll check back
in with you Brandon Smith
Ashton mara Jon
Ralston thank you all
thank you
[Music]
and to the analysis
of shields and
Brooks that is
syndicated columnist mark
shields and New
York Times columnist
David Brooks welcome
gentlemen so let's
continue the
conversation about James
Comey David we
heard today what the
president thinks
of it he said he
thought the former FBI director
vindicated him but
he also was telling
lies what did you
think I thought Trump
actually had some
points I think one of
the things we learned
on the criminal
side it was not a bad
not a terrible day
for for Donald Trump
James Comey seemed
to suggest that
there was no maybe
there's Cassim dad
at least on the idea
there was a lot of
collusion between the
Russian government and the Trump
campaign or even a
lot of conversations
I think what Trump
did to James Comey
clearing the room
and asked him to lay
off on Flynn was a
scandal something
terrible but probably
not something that
would rise to the
level of impeachment
in any normal presidency
so to me on the
criminal front not a disastrous
testimony for
Donald Trump on the
cultural front on
the moral front kind
of disastrous the
thought that he lied
is pretty strong we
do know because of
what Comey said
yesterday there's going
to be a lot more
investigations and
every time there's
a some sort of
independent or
special investigation
into a White House
it can swallow a
white house up for
not only for months
but for years the Whitewater
investigations went
on for seven years
and so I think what's
going to happen is
you're going to have a continued
administration that
is dysfunctional
that's under investigation
that's distrustful
and a president who's
obsessed now with
policy not with
anything instructive
but with this sort
of warfare what did
you make of James
Comey and what he had
to say
I thought James Comey
was believable I
thought he was
compelling in in large
part because Judy he
admitted his flaws
he did not present
himself as Galahad or
some Profile in
Courage he acknowledged
the fact that the
pressure of being one
on one of the
president just in the
White House that he
had not said to the
president was
inappropriate he said he
hadn't been strong
enough but it was
most revealing to me
of all the hearings
and Republicans and
I do sit want to say
one word for the
senators I mean they
didn't do soliloquies
they didn't do
seven-minute statements
followed by a
question do you agree
I thought they and
they didn't they
didn't show rank partisanship
I felt I thought
that there was a
seriousness led by
Chairman Byrd and
co-chair Warner but
what impressed me
most of all was
that well Republican
senators were willing
to come to the
defense of the president
the point David
made that there
wasn't obstruction of
justice on his part or whatever
none of them challenged
director Comey's
direct statements the
president lied and
that he was a liar
and that that's why
he had to memorialize
each meeting with
the president each
conversation with the
president because
he feared that the
president would lie
and nobody said no
wait a minute this
is this is George
Washington this is
a man of total or I
mean he does have
a reputation for
exaggeration hyping
and and some would
say not at not a
totally consistent
relationship with
the truth and reality
and I think that's
a real problem for
him and the fact
that he wasn't under
investigation is significant but
ironically nobody
asked and director
Comey didn't
volunteer whether as a
consequence of what
happened in his
meetings at the White
House that he may
now have opened
himself up to some
investigation the
President and as we
reported earlier
David the president
said today he sure
he'd be glad to or
would be willing to
speak under oath to
to the special
counsel robert muller
about what happened
but but given given
what you and Mark
are saying it just
does Kony now come
out of this with his
credibility intact
I think so I think
he's a careful
witness he was a very
believable witness
as Mark said and I
think what we saw
in the in the Comey
testimony was really
a clash of cultures
James Comey is an
institutional man he
serves the FBI he
believes in the
government of law he believes in
following the procedures
and norms that
really govern our
any organization we
are a nation of laws
Donald Trump lives
in an entirely
different cultural
universe he's more
clannish believing in
Klan believing in
family believing in
loyalty not recognizing
objective law
and not representing
the the procedures
that is really how
modern government
operates so when
Paul Ryan and other
Republicans say well
Donald Trump just
didn't know the rules
because he's that
he's innocent at
this he's a newbie at
this that's
insufficient it suddenly
that he doesn't know
the rules but at
all along and throughout
his presidency
he sort of trampled
on the rooms rules
almost as a matter
of policy as a matter
of character because
he does not believe
in that kind of
relationships it's all
personal loyalty
not about laws and
norms and standards
and I do think
eventually down the
road that's going to
be a continual source
of problem for him
that he is continually
violating the way
we do our government
in mark what about
the david brought
it up Speaker Paul
Ryan said essentially gives the
president a pass
saying well he's new to
Washington he doesn't know how
government works
he's not a man of
government yeah he's
a he's an enormous
child and we just we
don't have the same
rules from I mean
it was it was less
than fatuous it was
it was dishonest and
misleading on the
part of the speaker I
mean you cannot say
that I mean this man
has been running
for president he is
president I mean if
you have any he is a
graduate of Wharton
although I'd like to
see the Director of
Admissions at some
point come forward
and explain his
knowledge of American
government from
his experience at
the University of
Pennsylvania but I
mean you can't you
can't use these kind
of excuses Judy I
mean just just picking
up on what David
was saying what is
fascinating about
Comey
testimony if you
listen to I would
listen every word
of it is that Donald
Trump David mentioned
loyalty loyalty to
Donald Trump is one
way every one of the
co-authors was worked
with him on any of
his books has agreed
on one thing he is
a man without any
friends he could not
name a friend the one
person that he has
shown any sense of
loyalty to he shows
none to the people
around him is General
Mike Flynn and it's
curious I mean what
is it about that relationship
I mean what was it
that Mike Flynn did
or was doing on
the Donald Trump is
concerned that he
might say I'm he said
to the course the
conversation other
satellites referring
to have people who
worked with him in
his campaign other
satellites if they
were involved well go
after them you know
okay but could you
go easy on Mike I
mean in the idea
of clearing out the
room clearing out the
bited the Attorney
General the United
States walking out I
mean Jeff Sessions
at a terrible day
yesterday and so did
Reince Priebus the
the chief of staff
of the White House
when it was revealed
that they left the
president alone left
the FBI director
you know one-on-one
with the president
and obviously purpose
that the president
wanted special papers
so he was he was
saying go go easy
on lay off of Mike
Flynn and tell the
world that I'm in the
clear I'm in the
clear that's right
but David so it
comes down to he said
versus he said and
you were saying a
minute ago this could
drag on for years
how much damage has
been your talk I
hear he's referring
to the culture how
much damage is
being done to this
president yeah I
think modest damage
around the country
as we just heard
wasn't as big a story
as it was in Washington
I was at O'Hare
Airport trying to
watch on TV I couldn't
find any TVs that
had the hearings on
they were all on
sports channels so I'm
not sure politically
immediately but I
do think the scandal
here the fact that
the Trump will probably now be
investigated for
obstruction then maybe
sessions will be
investigated and once
these investigations
started they go on
forever rumor there
the Whitewater
investigation started
as a land deal and
then when it started
Monica Lewinsky was
an unknown person in
college and then it
turned into the Monica
Lewinsky scandal
they go on for years
and they spread out
and when what happens within the
administration is
nobody knows who's
being investigated
saying what under
oath and if Donald
Trump is really
willing 100% to testify
under oath
he's very naive about
what that process
means about what
happens when you start
shifting your stories
what happens when
you start talking
the way the Donald
Trump normally talks
which is imprecise
at best and that sort
of thing is bound
to get an administration
in trouble and
I think that will
become the rising tide
that will not destroy this
administration but
it's going to be a
long slow entanglement
in the culture of
crisis and the culture
of scandal let me
give you an immediate
problem that they
have Judy there's a
gubernatorial race
in Virginia Virginia
New Jersey have our
elections and on
Tuesday is the primary
and
in Virginia and
lieutenant governor
rather mild-mannered
pediatric doctor
surgeon is is running
on a on a slogan
and a TV ad that
says do not let this
narcissistic maniac
Donald Trump I mean
which tells you two
things one sort of
where that we've
debased the dialogue in
the debate in America
why is he doing it
though he's wondering
because he's
challenged by a
former congressman tom
Perriello who's backed
by a lot of Obama
people and Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth
Warren and Ed why is
he running this way
because in Virginia
among Democratic
voters according to
kinetic poll Donald
Trump is 95 percent
unfavorable and
three percent favorable
so that's what
Republicans are facing right now
they cannot embrace
him because he's
going to be he's
going to be Typhoid
Mary
in November of 2018
but but David as you
and Mark just heard
in hari's interview
with those reporters
from Nevada and in
Indiana in West
Virginia they're saying
you know a lot of
people are going about
their their lives
and a lot of people
have voted for Donald
Trump or just not
paying much attention
yeah I think
that's generally
true there's been
slippage among
Republicans since he was
inaugurated Republican
supporters down
7% among those who
are really strongly
supporting him it's
down a little more
and so there's been
some slippage it's
not it's a it's a
slow erosion I think
right now the
piano he's at 39 or
whatever it is percent
approval rating
that's bad but it's
not cataclysmic
especially among his
base so the problem
is right now not a
mass public erosion
of support right now
the problem is in
Washington where
he actually has to
govern the senators
as Mark said did a
very good job but
there's a huge wall of
difference between
a lot of those
Republican senators
and the Trump
administration and
they're not going to
be getting any
closer and and Mark I
just choose one point
David made about
the interest that
Nielsen ratings just
came out there were
nineteen point five
million people who
watched that day time
it began at 7 o'clock
in the West Coast
all right that's it that's a big
audience Judy it
compared there were 20
million who watched
Sunday night's NBA
final between the
Cleveland Kevin
the Golden State
Warriors I mean so that
is a that's a turnout
that and lot more
people obviously
saw the news and the
clips and and the
reports and and this
show and so I think
you know it's not
it's not the same
thing as a you know
Wars coverage or
whatever but it's this
real interest in this
and David I I mean
I here just quickly
I hear both of you
saying it's right now mainly in
Washington but that's
going to filter
down that's going to
have enough intial
effect on how people
view this yeah we
could have had a
day where the Trump
administration
really was in like
Titanic like peril
if there'd been some
testimony about
collusion if there'd
been some really
strong repeated push
for him to obstruct
justice but we
didn't have that
and so we're looking
more long-term now
David Brooks mark
shields
see you next Friday
have a great weekend
[Music]
the Tony Awards are
this Sunday and one
of the Broadway shows
nominated for Best
Play is Oslo it's a
drama that takes a
deeper look at
what went into the
historic Middle East
peace accords and
their relevance today
jeffrey Brown has
the story from New York
the world saw this
the historic 1993
handshake between
Israeli Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin and
PLoS er Arafat brought
together at the White
House by President
Bill Clinton what we
didn't see was this
you will achieve
nothing because you're
negotiating model
is fundamentally
flawed exactly
after the nine-month
behind-the-scenes
secret negotiations
had led up to the
Oslo Accords this is
all chance to make
a difference I go
ahead and try in
the play Oslo play
right JT Rogers has
taken real people
and events and with
dramatic license
imagined his way
into history sneaking
in the to Royal
households in Norway the
Palestine Liberation
Organization
illegally meeting
with Israelis drinking
together talking
about their children
the middle of winter
you think as a
storyteller
that's manna from heaven million
Palestinians most
of them without
regular electricity
or water crammed
into an area 25
miles long but only a
few miles wide
Rogers way in was through the
little-known
behind-the-scenes role of a
Norwegian couple
social scientists tire
rod Larsen played by
Jefferson Mays and
diplomat Mona Yul
played by Jennifer Ely
they served as
facilitators in a series
of high stakes highly
secretive talks
between Israelis and
Palestinians there
in that moment for
us it began the real
Mona Yul is now
Norway's ambassador to
the United Kingdom
her husband the real
tire rod Larsen now heads the
International
Peace Institute and
continues to work
on various crises
around the world
he joined us in New
York on stage recently
at Lincoln Center
Theater where Oslo
is being performed
just a handful of
people knew about what
was happening on the
palestinian-israeli
under Norwegian side
I think most people
are the impression
at the time that this
was something which
was very quick
concocted in the
White House and not
something which was
created laboriously
seven days a week
24 hours over nine
months does it
capture the art of
negotiating and
of what your role
pulling together the
negotiations yes I
think it does
actually because we
defined very strictly
our role to be the
the facilitator of
the talks and the
go-between between
the parties and
basically telling
the parties to its
your problems you have to find a
solution to it it's
not our job it's
your job I've been
sent here to try a
negotiation we
watch the face-off
between Achmed Corre
and early severe
the top Palestinian and Israeli
negotiators played
by Anthony Azizi and
Michael Aaron off
in my country we see
you as terrorists and
murderers who wish
to drive us into the
sea in my country
we see you as a savage
nation whose army
shoots our children
for sports overtime
the two slowly get
to know and respect
one another thank you
I admire your passion
the so called Oslo
Accords agreed to by the real
negotiators included
the first formal
mutual recognition
between Israel and
the PLO and set the
guidelines of what
to this day is referred
to as the peace
process in the play
the two Norwegians
their actions at
times secret even from
their own government
keep the talks
going and under
director Bartlett Scheer
the actors literally
keep the play
moving along 60
scenes through several
cities all on one
stage set welcome to
backstage at the Vivian Beaumont
I spoke to Jefferson
maze and Jennifer
Ely before a recent
performance tire
rode Larson came
in to speak to the
company about the
double sometimes
triple game of diplomacy
and when he was
talking about it it
struck me as being
very theatrical and
the diplomats are as
much from what you
knew no no they were
Matt's a good diplomat
is I think very
much like a good actor
in that extremely
sensitive to the
other people in the
room and is called
upon to play act at
certain points it
has an element of a
spy thriller I
think people come in
sometimes thinking I
don't know what I'm
going to see three
hours of a historical
political drama and
but it's got a sort
of binge-watch sort
of hook that gets in
you and you really
just want to keep
going you said every
character in this
play speaks their
subtext there is no
sub there is no
subject it is about
ideas it's about
facts and it's about
it's about narrative
and an incredible
narrative drive when
you have characters
who are only saying
exactly what they
mean
know their demons
I was expecting an
agreement and great
hope but it didn't
last the following
years brought more
suffering death and enmity that
continued to this
day but tire rod
Larsen the ever optimistic peace
negotiator says the
Oslo Accords did
have a lasting
impact including the
establishment of the Palestinian
Authority a peace
between Israel and
Jordan that has held
and more what we
are seeing today
is difficult but
without these
institutions it would have
been gangland and
complete chaos today
so which has benefited
Palestinian and
Israelis alike when
President Trump
visited the
Palestinians he visited
Palestinian president
who Springs out of
the Oslo Accords
if he brings two
parties together
again the premise for
any talk has to be
the own designed
signed agreements
which are there which
are the Oslo Accords
as for Oslo to
play taking on such
world-shaking history
playwright j.t
Rogers cited a
pretty good precedent
Shakespeare's plays
are entertaining and
body and sexy and
politics and life and
death and he's pretty
good I think that
I think it's it's
odd to me that's the
the current events
are larger political
things are not
approached more in the
American theater only because
it's such great red
meat for us 1200
people a night sit
here like around a
campfire and hear the
same story and ask
themselves some
questions and that's
only the theater
can do that no TV no
Netflix Oh in the
theater during a
demonstration in
support of the Oslo
Accords Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin is
assassinated Oslo
receives seven Tony
nominations in all
including for its two
lead actors and as
the year's best play
for the PBS Newshour
I'm jeffrey Brown
at Lincoln Center
Theater in New York
and we'll be back shortly with a
conclusion of our
series on people with
disabilities but
first take a moment to
hear from your local
PBS station it's a
chance to offer your
support which helps
to keep programs
like ours on the air
[Music]
for those stations
still with us we turn
to a story about
entrepreneurs and the
hurdles they must
overcome to get their
companies off the ground
african-american
women in particular
owned more than a
million businesses and
of the country's
fastest growing group
of entrepreneurs
last fall special
correspondent April
Brown met up with
two of those women
trying to break into
the club here's a
second look I love
peanut butter Zola
Bowie works as a
caregiver in the San
Francisco Bay Area
for a company called
own Eva she can
often be found
watching the Santos
family's three kids
who are all under
the age of four
the children's mother
Arlene Santo says
she couldn't run
her tech company
without the help as
a career woman you
don't want to feel
guilty that you have
a meeting you want
to make sure that
home life is taken
care of you can go
and that's really
what any of it is and
did you want to go
shopping after the
walk yeah Marvy
Jean Darden who also
lives in the Bay
Area had a stroke two
years ago and is
nearly blind but she
wants to remain in
her home as long as
possible after I
had the stroke I
couldn't do what I
had done before I
also worried about
different people that
we didn't know coming
into the home and
everything we're
gonna start with doing
the arm stretches
first but since own
Eva introduced mrs.
Darden to see Don
Thomas those problems
have been solved
oh she's more than
a caregiver you know
I feel like she's a friend
several of mrs.
Darden's adult children
live nearby but
have busy lives and
children of their own
- Anita Darden
Gardein is one of them
and part of the
so-called Sandwich
Generation with
elder and child care
needs
she has an 11-year
old daughter and
Marvy Jean is her mother Gardein
realized many others
had the same issues
so in 2014 she came
up with the idea for
own Eva a service providing FBI
background checked
care providers that
customers can learn
more about before
they ever enter
the home I'm Zola
and I'm going to
leave a caregiver
gardens business
currently provides
helpers for her parents
the santoses and
60 other clients but being an
african-american
woman entrepreneur is
not without its
challenges our biggest
challenge is cash we
have to turn stones
that some folks don't
have to I mean in
all candor I don't
I don't have the
hoodie and I'm not
the 20 something that
most people expect
to see or would want
to invest in when you
think about who in
Silicon Valley is
most likely to be able
to secure that
investment at a 2015
startup competition
Gardein was about to
make a pitch for o
neva when a potential
investor turned to
her husband Bob owned
Eva's chief
technology officer and
another business
partner he just looked
at them and the two
men and said you're
going to let the
black girl pitch and
that wouldn't flirt
me what was going
through your head I sang gree I
literally had to
remove myself you
certainly believe as
a woman you've done
all the appropriate
things that one
needs to do to be
competitive as a CEO
and it's disappointing
when all that
work is culminating in someone
minimizing you as
just a black girl
guard I ended up
winning the competition
and being named best
start-up of 2015
nevertheless she's
had a tough time
getting the attention of venture
capitalists or VCS
so garden is seeking
alternative funding
sources like Kiva
the crowdfunding
site that lets people
invest in the company
for as little as
$25 candida brush
is a professor of
entrepreneurship at
Babson College near
Boston she says
Gardens financial
struggle is not unique
across the board
women start businesses
with less money
than men whether
they're in technology
or whether they're
in consumer products
or whatever it's
about half 50% this is
a worldwide statistic VCS
generally don't
look like me from a
racial perspective
or gender perspective
I think that we're
seeing that change
particularly because of changing
demographics
Millennials especially
millennial women
are crashing through
ceilings angel rich
is one of those
Millennials trying
to break through the
glass ceiling not only for
african-american women
entrepreneurs but
for game developers
she started a
Washington dc-based
company called the
three which recently
developed a free
gaming app called
credit stacker we want
kids like you to know
exactly what to do
with their money
before they actually
have the chance to spend it
credit stacker
teaches people how to
make wise credit
decisions essentially
you have to swap
various pieces around
that represent monthly
payments so you
have your home loan
your student loans
your car loans and
so forth ah we have
another multiple-choice
question there's
also a credit score
that calculates as
your score and there's
multiple choice
questions built
in to assess your
knowledge along the
way and why a game
weevil is though a
game almost tricks
people into having
fun and they end up
learning how to
manage their money at
the same time and
as for money for her
own startup we were
honored to recently
be the global winner
of JPMorgan Chase
Financial Inclusion
competition for the
best solution in the
world for serving
vulnerable populations
they provided us
with a ten thousand
dollar grant to turn
our online version
into the mobile app
winning a ten thousand
dollar grant to
help improve the
financial literacy of
students and families
and underserved
communities does help
thank you however
funding is definitely
an issue for us
we've been very creative at
bootstrapping this
company off of
revenue since 2014
what is bootstrapping
for those who
don't know so
bootstrapping essentially
means operating with
no cash you have to
become very creative
as to how you come
up with things so for
instance we bought
on 15 recent graduates
gave them work
experience to develop
the game and jot
recommendations and
in turn we were able
to develop our game
for free what we
find is that women
tend to be more
resourceful and they
tend to bootstrap
their businesses a
little bit better and
so in the long run
what that means is
that they tend to
survive and they may
not grow as rapidly
but they tend to be
more sustainable in
certain ways back in
the Bay Area owned
IVA is ramping up to
potentially serve
more families like the
santoses the company
recently signed a
deal with a Seattle
based fortune 50
tech firm that will
offer the service as
a wellness benefit
to employees no
upfront money for
an IVA but immediate
access to thousands
of potential clients
for the PBS Newshour
I'm April Brown in
San Francisco
[Music]
now to another in our brief but
spectacular series where we ask
interesting people
to describe their
passions tonight we continue our
week-long theme of
hearing from people
with disabilities and
how they deal with
the challenges of
everyday life Reed
Davenport is a
documentarian whose films
focus on people living
with disabilities
his latest project
is called through my
lens
I have Schreiber
palsy I without you
people to see that
um my diagnosis is
Nam not biggest
obstacle but biggest
obstacle is people's
responses to back
diagnosis underestimate
you I mean I've
been on a clinic
now Helen and Olga
happens um listener
for yards who not to
waste time with the
people who Gaga at
the under streets
reminding me of the
profound ignorance
in the world and the
dome in Japan preachy
brats it'll affect
my life and turn
Ankara facts and many
other people with disabilities
I cannot underestimate
how strong and
how prevalent these signals
surrounding disability
in the media are
their needs to the
infirmary come with
discipline so they
can experience the
catharsis the RP
neighboring field there
is such excursions
either that for me if
I'm the first person
to bring discipline
listen to your
partner we ever such a
varmint Tico
my name is reka
hood and this is my
brief good sprint
idea Timmy consume the
water through my veins
Reid Davenport we
owe you a huge debt
of gratitude and I
hope everyone watching
this segment will
share it with someone
you know on our
Facebook page we are
encouraging young
people with disabilities
to share their
perspective and you
can watch additional
brief but spectacular
episodes on our
website it's PBS
org slash Newshour
slash brief on the
NewsHour online right
now did something you
read ever help you
get through a time
of grief our Newshour
family share ten
pieces of writing that
help them survive
and understand loss
all that and more
is on our web site
pbs.org/newshour
and tune in later
tonight Robert Costa
is preparing for
Washington week Robert
what is on tap hello
Judy a remarkable
two days in Washington
with the former
FBI director and
president accusing each
other of line then
today mr. Trump came
out swinging in the
Rose Garden defiant
that he's the one
telling the truth and
offering to testify under oath
we'll tell you why
that could prove
tricky for the
president's legal team
tonight on Washington
week Judy thank
you Robert and we
will be watching on
PBS Newshour weekend
Saturday how social
media's power to
mobilize may actually
limit the impact of
a protest the twist
in the 21st century
seems to be since we
can do things much
easier with digital
technology they don't
necessarily have
the same level of
teeth a similar action
say a march on
Washington might have 30
40 50 years ago
because that was the
result of a long
process of organizing
it pushed the people
in power to take
the threat pretty
seriously that's
tomorrow night on
PBS Newshour weekend
and that's the NewsHour
for tonight I'm
Judy Woodruff have a
great weekend thank
you and we'll see
you soon you're
watching PBS